# 1.1.1 Exercises for Section 1.1

__Exercise 1.1.1:__
What is the difference between a compiler and an interpreter?

Compiler is a program, that creates binary executable file from our
source code and then we can run this file. And interpreter is a program
that takes our source code and execute it line by line translating it
to machine code at the same time.

__Exercise 1.1.2:__
What are the advantages of (a) a compiler over an interpreter (b) an
interpreter over a compiler?

__(a)__ In general compiled programs runs faster than their scipt
equivalents. Also we don't need to expose our source code written in
compiled language. In most cases there is no need in additional programs
to run a compiled ones. Many errors in our code can be found without
running (at compile time) in contrast to interpreted languages where
error happens only when a line with non existing function invocation
is being executed.

__(b)__ It is easier to develop programs in interpreted languages in
this sense that we can use REPL (read-eval-print loop) to evaluate some
expressions to understand how they work and we and programs launches
faster (in this cycle: write code -> try to run it -> find errors)
since there is no step for compilation.

__Exercise 1.1.3:__
What advantages are there to a language-processing system in which the
compiler produces assembly language rather than machine language?

The advantage is that we can analyse produced assembly code and
experiment by modifying it.

__Exercise 1.1.4:__
A compiler that translates a high-level language into another high-level
language is called a *source-to-source* translator. What advantages are
there to using C as a target language for a compiler?

There are such advantages as ones in exercise 1.1.3 but also we do not
need to implement a compiler for each architecture since there are a lot
of C compilers for almost every architecture. So we need to implement
only our translator and use existing compilers to get our program
executable.

__Exercise 1.1.5:__
Describe some of the tasks that an assembler needs to perform.

Assemblers take its sources and produces machine code, resolve names,
may optimize instructions.
